# Frequently Asked Questions

## What is MineSkin?

MineSkin.org is a Minecraft skin generator that allows you to quickly get skin texture data with valid signatures by
just uploading skin images.

## What can I use skin data / signatures for?

With the skin data and signatures provided by MineSkin, you can easily apply custom skins to in-game player heads,
player NPCs, or even change a playerâ€™s in-game appearance. This is useful for personalizing game experiences, creating
unique avatars, and customizing characters in creative ways.

## Why can't I just get signatures directly?

Minecraft skins are made up of two parts: the skin texture and the skin signature. The skin texture is the image that
you see in-game, while the skin signature is a unique identifier that allows the game to verify the authenticity of the
skin texture. MineSkin generates both the skin texture and the skin signature for you.

## Why should I use MineSkin to generate skin signatures?

MineSkin makes it fast and easy to generate custom Minecraft skin data by automating the process of creating skin
signatures. Doing this manually can be very time-consuming and cumbersome, especially if you need to generate a large
number of skins.   
Doing this manually with only a few Minecraft accounts is also limited to just a few skins per minute, while MineSkin
can generate hundreds of skins per minute.

## How does MineSkin generate skin signatures?

MineSkin uses Minecraft accounts provided by the community to generate skin signatures. Specifically, it uploads the
skin texture to a Minecraft account and then downloads the resulting skin signature. This process is automated and does
not require any manual intervention.

## How can I help to make generating skins faster?

If you have a Minecraft account you don't regularly use, you can help speed up the skin generation process by providing
it to MineSkin.
This allows MineSkin to use the account to generate skin signatures more quickly and efficiently.
Head over to the [Account Manager](https://account.mineskin.org/minecraft) to provide your account.

## How do I use the MineSkin API?

The MineSkin API allows you to programmatically generate skin data and signatures for use in your own
projects.
You can find the API documentation and more information on the [MineSkin Docs](https://docs.mineskin.org).

## What is a speed credit?

1 credit corresponds to 1 newly generated skin. Speed credits allow you to generate skins faster.

## What else are credits used for?

Credits are only used when generating skins currently.

## What happens if I run out of credits?

If you run out of credits, you can still generate skins, but at a slower rate. If you use up your purchased credits, you
start using your free credits.

## When do the daily credits reset?

On the free plan, you get 10 credits per day. These refresh 24 hours after generating the first skin. If you do not
generate skins for more than 24 hours, the reset period will restart when you generate the next skin.

## How do the monthly credits work?

Once you've used up your daily credits, you begin to use up your 100 free monthly credits. These reset one month after
you first generate a skin.

## Do purchased credits expire?

No, purchased credits do not expire. However, credits granted as part of a monthly/yearly subscription will reset one
month/year after the subscription starts.

## Are there other ways to get credits?

Currently, you can only purchase individual credits or subscriptions. This may change in the future. Please reach out if
you require more credits.

## How does the rate limit work?

Depending on your plan, you can generate a certain number of new skins per minute. For example, when using free credits,
you can generate up to 30 skins per minute (1 skin every 2 seconds).

## How do I use my credits or subscription?

To use your credits or faster request speed, head to the API Keys page and assign your subscription or credits to the
key you want to use. Then simply use the key in your requests.