---
slug: mineskin-v2
title:  "MineSkin V2"
date:   2024-11-14
authors: [inventivetalent]
---

Today I am happy to announce the MineSkin API V2!
It comes with improvements to speed and reliability as well as more consistency of API response structures.  
There's also a new website!  
MineSkin V2 is a complete restructuring of the skin data generation process and MineSkin`s infrastructure.

<!-- truncate -->

**Here's what's new:**


## New Website
The Website has been rebuilt from the ground up to be more user-friendly and to make use of the new API features.  
It's currently in beta at [v2.mineskin.org](https://v2.mineskin.org) and will replace the current website once it's ready.  
Please share your feedback and report any issues you find via the [MineSkin Discord](https://discord.gg/DeeNu3cUMp)!

In case you missed it, there is also a new [Account Manager](https://account.mineskin.org/) to simplify managing your API keys, linked Minecraft accounts and more.


## API Changes

tl;dr: Read the [API documentation](/docs/mineskin-api/mineskin-api) or check out the [migration guide](/docs/guides/migrating-to-v2) for a detailed overview of the changes.

### A single /generate endpoint
No more `/generate/upload`, `/generate/url`, `/generate/user` just a single request to
`/v2/generate` is enough! It will automatically figure out what to generate based on the content you send.  
The same goes for the new...


### Generator Queue
Requests made to MineSkin V1 were processed immediately and returned the resulting skin data when complete.  
That made building and using the API pretty straight forward, but it also made some requests a bit awkward, since skin generation can take up to 5 seconds, resulting in extremely slow response times.  

The restructure of V2 includes the separation of the REST API and the actual skin data generator.  
Now when a generate request comes in, it is added to a global queue which a number of worker instances then process.
So while you can still use the familiar `/generate` endpoint above, the new and preferred method is to make a request to `POST /v2/queue` (with the same content as previous generate requests). 
This then either returns the existing skin data for the requested image, or a job UUID.  
You can then use the job id in a request to `GET /v2/queue/:jobId` to check on the status of the generation. Once the job reaches the `completed` status it will return the generated skin data.  
This system may also be expanded at some point with support for webhooks for finished requests, if there is demand for it.


### Private Skin Data [TODO]
Now, before you say anything: yes, you were able to generate skin data labelled as “private” before.
But technically those skins weren't actually private, but simply “unlisted” aka excluded from the skin list endpoint and hidden on the gallery website page.
Now, you can generate skins which are actually private, meaning any private skins you generate are linked to you/your API key. 
To access the skin later, you need to use another API key linked to you (Of course, if someone else happens to generate a skin from the same image, that one may not be private).  
The ["My Skins"](https://v2.mineskin.org/my-skins) page on the new website will show all skins you have generated with your API key, including private skins.


### Relaxed rate limits
MineSkin always had a pretty strict rate limit due to third-party rate limits for changing skins and querying skin data. 
Various projects that heavily use MineSkin have been granted more relaxed rate limits free-of-charge over the years, allowing some to essentially bypass any limits.  

Thanks to the new queue system, the rate limits have now been relaxed for everyone!    
Instead of a fixed delay between generate requests, you can now submit multiple skin generation requests at once.  
These are then processed in the order they were received as spots in the queue become available.  
By default, only one request is processed at a time and there is a limit of 5 requests in the queue per user.  


### Credits
To further improve the queue system, there is now a credit system. 
Each new skin generation uses up 1 credit. You are automatically granted 100 free credits per month with an additional 10 credits per day.

But don't worry: if you use up all your credits, you can still generate skins, but your requests are given a lower priority and will take longer to complete.  

